
It is often believed that doctors and Engineers are required to practice their profession in the country where they completed their training. Meanwhile, some people also argue that they should be free to select any country they wish to work.

Actually, the idea that professionals should serve in their own nation which sounds autocratic is somewhat valid. It  is because in order to produce skillful manpower such as doctors and engineers the country has to invest resources to develop its infrastructures. However, a strich implementation of such norm would be unjust since the professionals also have the right to choose the land they wish to serve. Hence, the rationality of the claim is disrupted when considering the people's aspirations and desires.

On the other hand, working in a different country opens the door for new opportunities. When they get a chance to engage with new experiences it helps them with their professional as well as personal growth. It is obvious that working conditions in different countries vary. In case of a doctor the medical cases he works on is heavily dependent on the living condition of the region. This is dues to the geographical and climatic conditions of the world. For example the equatorial regions such as the continents of Africa, South America and parts of the Asia might force him  to perform his role more intensively with the reason being backward health services, epidemic outbreaks , ideal conditions for microorganisms and poor sanitation. While developed countries have unique challenges to offer in the form of advanced medical practices, research priority, academic environments and even consciousness to beauty standards. It similar in case of engineers as the responsibilities they are assigned largely depends upon the infrastructures of the country . In fact, their job is very sensitive to factors such as Technological advancements, working culture and techniques.

Therefore, Qualities of doctors and engineers and doctors working abroad are shaped by the working conditions they encounter as they gain expertise to the corresponding country. So they should be allowed to work abroad for  the purpose of expanding their skillset as long as they also serve their county directly or indirectly.